JOINS (Basic to Intermediate)

1. List all book titles with publisher name.

2. Show authors and the titles of books they wrote.

3. Display store name and order quantity from sales.

4. Show title, price, and publisher city.

5. List authors with their state and book title, sorted by author last name.

6. Show titles and total quantity sold using sales table.

7. List all publishers and number of books they published.

GROUP BY + HAVING

8. Find number of books per publisher, show only publishers with more than 3 books.

9. Show average book price by type, only where average price > 20.

10. Display total sales quantity per store, having quantity > 50.

11. Count books per author, show only authors with more than 1 book.

SUBQUERIES

12. Find books with price greater than average book price.

13. Show authors who live in the same state as publisher ‘Algodata Infosystems’.

14. List titles whose advance is greater than the highest advance in business type.

15. Find publishers who have published more books than the average publisher.

MIXED (JOIN + GROUP BY + HAVING)

16. Show publisher name and total sales quantity, only publishers with sales > 100.

17. Display author name and total books written, sorted by book count descending.

18. List store names and total sales amount, show top 5 highest stores.

ADVANCED MIXED (JOIN + SUBQUERY + HAVING + ORDER)

19. Show titles that have sold more than the average sales quantity of all titles.

20. Find authors who wrote books priced above the overall average price, sorted by price descending.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.

Find the top 3 publishers whose total sales amount is highest.

Calculate sales using quantity × price.

Only include publishers whose average book price is above overall average price.

Sort by total sales descending.

2.

List authors who have written more books than the average number of books per author.

Display author name and book count.

Order by book count descending.

3.

Show book titles that generated sales greater than the average sales of their own book type.

Display title, type, and total sales amount.

Sort by total sales descending.

4.

Find stores that sold books from more than 2 different publishers.

Show store name and number of publishers.

Only include stores where total quantity sold is above the overall average quantity sold per store.

Order by publisher count descending.

5.

Display publishers whose highest priced book is greater than the average of all maximum book prices per publisher.

Show publisher name and max book price.

Sort descending by max price.